# Understanding-Used-Sailboat-Prices

For many people who live in coastal cities, sailing in their sailboats is a beautiful thing. Unfortunately, the market for sailboats is not so accessible, and as a luxury item sold in limited quantities each year, the price of a sailboat is a mystery. However, all laws in this world can be summarized, and the prices of used sailboats are also traced. Our team, invited by a sailboat dealer in Hong Kong, will decode the price of used sailboats in this report.
We broadly categorize sailboats into two popular categories: Monohulled Sailboats and Catamarans. We've collected thousands of offers for sailboats from websites selling used sailboats, as well as the corresponding attributes of each sailboat. In our survey, we listed the following key features: Make, Variant, Length, Year, Beam, Draft, Displacement, Fuel Capacity, average regional PPP, and most importantly, listing price. 
All these features influence the listing price to varying degrees. To quantify the impact of each feature, we first calculated the correlation coefficient and then conducted the random forest regression analysis of the dataset. As a result, we concluded that all these features positively affect the listing price, meaning when the value of these independent variables increases, price increases correspondingly. What’s more, Length and Year are the two features with the highest feature importance score. 
Average PPP is the regional economic factor we choose to connect Hong Kong with Caribbean/USA/Europe geologically and economically. This factor, the purchasing power parity, acts as a bridge and allows us to apply the model we created to the Hong Kong dataset.
We modeled the listing of prices using a Linear Regression model and created regression equations for both monohulled and catamaran sailboats. From the equations, we can predict the price using the length, year, and average PPP variables. We tested the precision of our linear regression model by analyzing the R-squared values, chi-square values, and p-values. Based on our model, we found that the regression equation for catamarans is more accurate than that of monohulled since the correlation between sailboat features and price is stronger for catamaran sailboats.
To check the regional impact, the f-test is used to check the variances of two samples. In this case, the F-Test will be used to compare whether the regional effect has any changes in the listing price of sailing boat variance. Another test will be conducted based on the average PPP value and the average listing price. Using the analyzed data, we can conclude whether or not average PPP or region has any changes in listing price.
After creating our model, we can use it to predict the listing prices based on three variables: length, year, and average PPP. After doing so, the t-test can be used, which determines the significant difference between the two. Doing so, allows us to determine whether Hong Kong prices will be higher or lower based on regional effects.
Through our analysis, we are able to determine the variables that affect listing price and therefore, create a mathematical model that can predict sailboat prices.
